# Real-Valued Fast Fourier Transform(RFFT) Algorithm Development

RFFT will represent Real-Valued Fast Fourier Transform in the following context.
In many situations, like the preprocessing stage for openai/whisper model. The input data for the DFT are purely real, in which case the RFFT runs faster than the FFT algorithm.


## An Introduction for RFFT
The rfft algorithm is designed to handle real-valued input signals. Real signals have conjugate symmetry in the frequency domain, which means that the positive and negative frequency components are complex conjugates of each other. This symmetry property allows the rfft algorithm to compute only half of the frequency spectrum, reducing the computational cost.

## Motivation
Buddy compiler aims in developing an end to end Whisper model with MLIR project. Whisper model uses rfft for generating input features with a fixed length 400, and this process was repeated 3001 times for each audio. To ensure the accuracy for the generated input features, we use the same algorith with NumPy(which use PocketFFT library).

The implementation of PocketFFt's rfft tipically contains two stages, the planning stage and computaion stage. The planning stage calculate the twiddle factors and generate the computation order of butterfly operators. The comptation stage follows the schedule order generated by the planning stage, and completed the RFFT computation process.

### Planning Stage
- twiddle factor computation: PocketFFT library use a 
- schedule order: Most FFT libraries use a planner to schedule the computation order for butterfly operators.

### Computation Stage
The project already support butterfly operator 4 and 5, represented as radf4 and radf5 in the following context.

## Device Supported
Currently the scalar version support only cpu. 
This procject will support gpu by using mlir::vector Dialect in future.

TODO:
In the 2024 OSPP, Three aditional operators are needed to achieve universal RFFT functions, which are rad2, rad3 and radfg. radfg represent for larger prime butterfly factors, it was less efficient, generic routines.


PreTask
1. Use 